{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\keep\keepn\li2160\sb240\sl259\slmult0\qc\b\f0\fs28\lang9 Project Tittle: ONLINE SALON SYSTEM\par
Name:JAMES MBURU WANJIRU\par
Reg no:CT101/G/6265/19\par

\pard\li2160\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc Course:BSC COMPUTER SCIENCE\par
\par
1.1: INTRODUCTION\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb240\sl259\slmult0\qc\tab\tab 1.2: Background of the Study\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b0\f1\fs22 A vibrant private sector that builds on the combined linkages between  MSEs and large enterprises supported by good governance and an enabling business environment has been considered as the background and engine of a healthy economy and society. Especially in developing economies,people regard enterpreneurship as a precondition for generating employment, enhancing productivity, maintaing copetitiveness,contributing to development and reducing poverty.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 In the world we are evolving,  that is, in the 21st century, the young generation her overtaken the largest population. This young generation have a unique way as they concentrate more on their outfit hence bringing modern beauty which consist of hair beauty, spa, and many other. They also prefer service by one beautician which now enhances the service providers to provide the best services to its customers. In these, the concept is defined by a ratio environment where the customer ratio to this environment is probably 1:1 but the ratio of customers to this environment differs and is influenced by the efficiency of their services.\par
The JIM-X Beauty Salon Management System has been established in recent years and it has somehow a good number of customers and six employees. It faced some challenges in which the manual system was slow, queues were long where customers would meet other customers in lines. It has also led to conflicts among queueing customers. The data of customers was not kept in order as some crucial data was lost. The work was also very tiresome and took more time.\par
 Due to the continued increase of customer, the need to open other branches were necessary and this gave light to put away the manual process and embrace the new salon management system which will provide quick and reliable services and try to fix so many challenges. \par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb240\sl259\slmult0\qc\b\f0\fs28\par
\f2                              1.3: EXISTING SYSTEMS\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\f0\tab\tab\tab 1.4: PROBLEM STATEMENT\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs22 various studies that have been carried out in Kenya show that micro and small enterprises face many challenges that as a result make them not grow as expected. \par
there is a general concern that hair salons and spa micro-enterprises are growing in terms of sales in Kenya. The number of salons coming up may be astronomical but their output in terms of sales and economic contributions are minimal. \par
this is because they are facing so many challenges that hinder them from growing in terms of largeness and economy. traditional salons and SPA industries use manual processes where everything is done manually, may it be date tracking, payment process, or customer queueing. This is very tiresome and prone to data loss. It also faces limited customer engagement as it only targets a few customers who are either friends of the entrepreneur or customers in that area. The available employees are allocated their work manually where some mistakes and bad work allocation may be seen. In that, we can have an employee who is a specialist in a given field and he or she should be the only one leaving an imbalance in work. Since data was manually taken, data tend to get exposed or prone to theft. All these challenges have made the JIM-X SALON have a study on the need for modernization and efficiency and the importance of customer experience in the salon business environment.\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb240\sl259\slmult0\qc\b\f0\fs28\par

\pard\keep\keepn\li2160\sb240\sl259\slmult0\qc\f2 1.5: PROPOSED SYSTEM\f0\par

\pard\li2160\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\f1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22 I have considered all the user requirements and I have come up with JIM-X Salon Management System which will be fast and meet all the user requirements.  The interface of the proposed web-based application is designed to have a rich user experience and a user-friendly way to access functionality. The proposed system makes more use of mobile applications as people are now familiar with these types of applications. This will generate more customers. The system also has calendar management where it stores every data fed by the user. It gives the customers the priority of booking appointments smoothly on the salon services provided.\par
The system also has a feature of customer tracking as it saves the data of the customers and also sends the notification to the customer. This leads to quick reach of customers and sending and receiving feedback.\par
The proposed system is free and easy to use as the user interface is customer-satisfying and also easy to use. This system will automate the extra paperwork that is done as the owner will have access to all the data. Furthermore, the system helps in time management.\par
\par

\pard\li2160\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc  \b\fs28\par
\f2 1.6: PURPOSE OF THE STUDY\par
\b0 The purpose of this study is to automate the salon enterprices as customers waste alot of time when queuing and if the system is implemented each customer will be checking the time gap of salon.\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb240\sl259\slmult0\par

\pard\li2160\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0 1.7: General Objectives/ Broad Objective\par
\b0\f1\fs24 The main objective is to develop on platform that will be running online and can enhance customers to interact with the shop's services and make bookings online. The system should allow customers to plan for their appointment whenever the time valid is in the empty queue\fs22 .\b\f0\fs28\par
\par
1.8: Specific Objectives\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs22 To develop a user-friendly and intuitive online platform that is easy to use and input functionality to it. The U-I should navigate clearly and stepwise to the user.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}To help customers manage their wallets the system can display the prices of every commodity or service that is offered in the salon.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}To enhance online booking and home booking where customers are given a chance to book their preferred time for the salon services and also the desired place of receiving the services.\par

\pard\li2160\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs28\par
\par
1.9: Justification of the Study\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs22 Salon management system research is being conducted to help small business entrepreneurs grow innovatively and help their business ideas spread across a wide geographical area. The research provides real-time support as the interactive FAQs will help provide users with the answers when they need them.\par
This system employs a survey procedure so that it can be valuable in understanding the mindset of those participating in the study.\par
It also uses an explanatory research design where all archival data, interviews cross-section studies, and other mixed method studies. The research is implemented to be of greater use to both customers and entrepreneurs. This study requires a wide reach of customers and increased profit among entrepreneurs.\par

\pard\keep\keepn\sb240\sl259\slmult0\qc\b\f0\fs28\tab\tab\tab 1.10: Scope of the Study\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\f1\fs22 The study covered hair salon enterprises in JIM-X salon. The respondents of the study were the managers, workers, and customers of the surveyed hair salon and spa enterprises. InFORMATION FROM INTERVIEWS AND RESPONDENTS was not easily forthcoming. Some respondents deliberately withheld the information and some never gave accurate data.\par
other respondents were rude and uncooperative while some of them went out of the related topic demanding payments to give correct information. Strangely some even acted suspiciously thinking that they were being followed by the county authorities and acted hostile to the extent they chased the interviewer.\par
Due to the vast nature of the town and the number of hair salons in the town, only a few salon enterprises were sampled.\par
the proposed system will provide and manage the day-to-day salon processes easily. It will meet the following requirements:\par

\pard{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf3\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Manage and control the business details.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}The salon itself has different branches where each detail of each branch is in a separate object as it has a separate login and separate branch account \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}to manage and control employee details \par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}Each employee has an account with the field he or she specializes in.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}manage and control service details\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}The system enables the display of services that can be offered and their service fee. It also shares the queue of the services offered and updates in time.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}manage and control bookings by salon\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}the system allows customers to call directly to the salon admin or book online according to the timetable booking schedule.\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}manage payments\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}the system allows the customer to pay after service efficiently and payment of delivered commodities is swift as it updates instantly\par
{\pntext\f3\'B7\tab}and manages customer details -\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1  the system allows history keeping of data hence customers' data are managed protected and retrieved easily\par

\pard\keep\keepn\li2880\sb240\sl259\slmult0\qc\b\f0\fs28\par
\f2 1.11: LIMITATIONS\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f2 a.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf2\pnindent360\pnstart1\pnlcltr{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b0 This system may face technical Issues as they reliant to developing technologies where some glinches can occur which inlude System outages, slow performance, or compatibility issues with different devices and browsers can disrupt operations.\par
{\pntext\f2 b.\tab}Security Concerns: Handling customer data online poses security challenges. Protecting sensitive information such as customer details, payment information, and appointment history is critical. A data breach could lead to loss of customer trust and legal consequences.\par
{\pntext\f2 c.\tab}Limited Personal Interaction: While online systems enhance convenience, they may reduce the face-to-face interactions that are often valued in salon and spa businesses. Some customers may prefer a more personal touch, and online systems may not fully replicate the in-person experience.\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\par

\pard\keep\keepn\li2880\sb240\sl259\slmult0\qc\b\par
\par
\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qc 1.12: SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\b0 The study may aim to identify ways in which the implementation of an online salon system can improve business operations, enhance customer experiences, and increase overall efficiency. This could be particularly significant for the growth and success of the salon and spa enterprises.\par
Entrepreneurs, business owners, and managers in the salon and spa industry stand to benefit from the study's revelations about the strategic decisions that contribute to success in the digital landscape. This includes insights into technology adoption, operational adjustments, and customer engagement strategies that are aligned with the entrepreneurial background.\par
With the beauty and wellness industry undergoing a transformation through digitalization, the study addresses the challenges and opportunities associated with integrating online salon systems. Uncovering the nuances of technological adoption can guide businesses in overcoming hurdles and harnessing the full potential of these systems.\par
By exploring the impact of entrepreneurs' experience on the online salon system, the study aims to shed light on how these systems influence customer experiences. Understanding customer preferences and behaviors in the digital realm is essential for delivering services that align with evolving expectations, thus fostering customer satisfaction and loyalty.\par
\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0\qc\b\par
1.13: OPERATIONAL DEFINITION OF TERMS\b0\par

\pard\sa160\sl259\slmult0 SPA - A spa service can include various treatments aimed at promoting relaxation, beauty, and overall well-being.\par
JIM-X -Name of the salon\par
FAQs -frequently asked questions\par
MSEs -stands for Micro and Small Enterprises\par

\pard\keep\keepn\li2880\sb240\sl259\slmult0\b\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2160\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
}
 